README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">Watif 👜 ⌚️</h1>

A `React and Rails` designed as an e-marketplace(Etsy clone) allowing creativity and uniqueness in products from handmade to vintage items and craft supplies.</p>


## Technologies

**Front End:** 
- React
- React Router - Declarative Routing
- Redux
- Semantic UI - A UI component framework for theming websites
- CSS3 for customization
- Stripe API - Service that allows users to accept payments online
- Dotenv - A zero-dependency module that loads environment variables


**Back End:** link to [Back End Repository](https://github.com/valentinem1/watif_backend)
- Ruby [2.6.1]
- Rails [~> 6.0.2, >= 6.0.2.1] - MVC web framework used as an API
- Bcrypt [~> 3.1.7] - Encrypt and secure user passwords
- Rack-cors - Handles Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS), making cross-origin AJAX possible
- Jwt [~> 2.2] - Cryptographic signing
- PostgreSQL [>= 0.18, < 2.0] - Database
- Rest Client - Allows to save API response into the database by only fetching once
- Active Model Serializers - Serializing API routes to JSON
- Stripe API - Service that allows users to accept payments online
- Dotenv -  A zero-dependency module that loads environment variables

## Prerequisites
Before you begin, ensure you have installed the latest version of:

- Ruby
- Rails
- PostgreSQL
- React

## Installing
_Note: Without an Etsy API key, the project will not be able to have any data_<br />
_For that specific situation I added some seed data_<br />

To launch the app you'll have to follow the following steps:

**Back End setup**
- Clone this following repo here: [Back End Repository](https://github.com/valentinem1/watif_backend) and `cd` into it
- Run `bundle install` to install all required dependencies
- Ensure you have PostgreSQL up and running
- Run `rails db:create` to create the database locally
- Run `rails db:migrate` to create the tables in the database
- Run `rails db:seed` to create the seed data
- Run `rails s -p 4000` to run the server

**Front End setup**
- Clone the repo and `cd` into it
- Run `npm install` to install all dependencies
- Run `npm start` to run the server
- Ensure it is running locally on `http://localhost:3000` to view it in the browser

![Home Page picture](images/homepagedemo.jpeg)

Commit message:

added zoom image functionality for the item show page

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">Watif 👜 ⌚️</h1>

A `React and Rails` designed as an e-marketplace(Etsy clone) allowing creativity and uniqueness in products from handmade to vintage items and craft supplies.</p>


## Technologies

**Front End:** 
- React [16.12.0]
- React Router [^5.1.2] - Declarative Routing
- React Router Dom [^5.1.2] - Declarative Routing
- Redux [^7.2.0]
- React Medium Image Zoom [^4.3.0] - Allows images to work together for a “zooming” effect
- React Stripe Checkout [^2.6.3] - Service that allows users to accept payments online
- Dotenv [^8.2.0] - A zero-dependency module that loads environment variables
- Semantic UI [^0.88.2] - A UI component framework for theming websites
- CSS3 for customization


**Back End:** link to [Back End Repository](https://github.com/valentinem1/watif_backend)
- Ruby [2.6.1]
- Rails [~> 6.0.2, >= 6.0.2.1] - MVC web framework used as an API
- Bcrypt [~> 3.1.7] - Encrypt and secure user passwords
- Rack-cors - Handles Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS), making cross-origin AJAX possible
- Jwt [~> 2.2] - Cryptographic signing
- PostgreSQL [>= 0.18, < 2.0] - Database
- Rest Client - Allows to save API response into the database by only fetching once
- Active Model Serializers - Serializing API routes to JSON
- Stripe API - Service that allows users to accept payments online
- Dotenv -  A zero-dependency module that loads environment variables

## Prerequisites
Before you begin, ensure you have installed the latest version of:

- Ruby
- Rails
- PostgreSQL
- React

## Installing
_Note: Without an Etsy API key, the project will not be able to have any data_<br />
_For that specific situation I added some seed data_<br />

To launch the app you'll have to follow the following steps:

**Back End setup**
- Clone this following repo here: [Back End Repository](https://github.com/valentinem1/watif_backend) and `cd` into it
- Run `bundle install` to install all required dependencies
- Ensure you have PostgreSQL up and running
- Run `rails db:create` to create the database locally
- Run `rails db:migrate` to create the tables in the database
- Run `rails db:seed` to create the seed data
- Run `rails s -p 4000` to run the server

**Front End setup**
- Clone the repo and `cd` into it
- Run `npm install` to install all dependencies
- Run `npm start` to run the server
- Ensure it is running locally on `http://localhost:3000` to view it in the browser

## Features

Users are able to sign up/sign in. Upon Sign in users are taken to their profile.

![login gif](images/login.gif)

![Home Page picture](images/homepagedemo.jpeg)
